This is the first of two
hands-on exercises involving
sensor data from a weather station.
In this one, we will look at
static data in a text file.
The next one we will look at live data
streaming from the weather station
in real time.
In this exercise, we will begin
by opening a terminal window and
changing into the directory
containing the station measurements.
We will look at these measurements in
a text file and then look at the key for
these measurements so
we can understand what the values mean.
Finally, we will plot the measurements.
Let's begin.
First, we will open a terminal window by
clicking on the Terminal icon on the top
of the toolbar.
Next, we'll cd into the directory
containing the sensor data.
We'll run cd
Downloads/big-data-two/sensor.
We can write ls to see
the contents of this directory.
The data from the weather station is
in a text file called wx-data.txt.
We can run more wx-data.txt to
see the contents of this file.
Each line of this file is
a separate set of measurements.
There are two columns in this file,
the first column is a time stamp and
it's separated by
a second column by a tab.
The second column itself has separate
columns and these are separated by commas.
The time stamp is the number
of seconds since 1970.
You'll notice that it increases for
each time stamp.
each measurement.
But sometimes measurements
come in at the same time.
For example this one at 006.
The measurements,
we see that the prefix is 0R1 for
most of them but some have 0R2.
If we look at the other measurements,
we see that all the 0R1 measurements
start with Dn, Dm, Dx, and so on.
Whereas R2 begins with Ta, Ua, and Pa.
If we scroll down in the text
file by hitting the space bar,
we'll see there are other
measurements besides R1 and R2.
For example, there's R5 that has Th,
Vh, Vs and so on.
And there's R0 which has
all the measurements.
So Dn, Dm, Dx, Ta, Ua, Pa.
And the remaining ones.
Next we'll open another internal
window and look at the key to this
measurements click on the tool
bar to open the terminal window.
cd into downloads big data two sensor
And the key to these measurements is
in a file called wxt520format.txt.
We can run more wxt520format.txt
to see this file.
This file says where each
of the prefix is mean, for
example Sn is the wind speed minimum.
Sm is the wind speed average.
And Ta is the air temperature.
So if we go back to our sensor file,
we see here Ta equals 13.9c.
That means the air temperature at this
time was 13.9 degrees celsius.
We can also create a plot of
the data in this text file
by running plot-data.py wx-data.txt Ta.
This says to plot the data in
the wx-data file and the measure that we
want to apply is Ta, which according
to our key, is the air temperature.
When we run it, it displays a plot of the
air temperature found in the text file.